# Training-2024-04-22-Title.md

## VMware Cloud Foundation Technical Overview

## Objectives
- Articulate how VCF enables IT teams to deliver a modern, private cloud leveraging a Software-Defined Data Center (SDDC) to support traditional and next-generation applications.
- Describe the VCF building block components and the value that each delivers.
- Explain the four types of VCF deployments.
- Recall some of the financial benefits customers receive after deploying VCF.

## Notes
- simplify the deployment and management of private and hybrid cloud infrastructures
- complete solution for building and operating a modern cloud environment
- The typical enterprise averages using 464 applictions
- Pros of Public Clou
   - Flexible
   - Low Entry Point
   - Fast to get started
   - Fairly resilient
- Private Clouds can offer these +
   - heightened security and control
   - white glove catering to compliance requirements
   - Perceived peace of mind of on premises data...
   - Data Sovergnty
   - High performance, low latency
- VCF has two types of domains. The “management domain” is for all management components (which follows VMware best practice to separate management from customer workloads), and “virtual infrastructure domains” dedicated to customer workloads. 
- Workload domains can be provisioned for a variety of different use cases. Each workload domain is comprised of one or more vSphere clusters and is scaled and lifecycle managed independently of other domains.
- A VCF instance can support up to 15 domains (including the management domain) when configured to share the management domain single sign-on (SSO) instance.
- VCF can scale to a total of 25 domains (including the management domain) when Isolated Workload Domains are used. Isolated workload domains are configured using their own SSO instance for vCenter Server separation, which can be useful for service providers.
- Each workload domain is created with its own vCenter Server. A new NSX instance can be deployed to provide networking and security separation for each domain or an NSX instance can be shared between domains if the shared management domain SSO is used.
- VMware Validated Solutions
   - Identity and Access Management
   - Developer Ready Infrastructure
   - Heath Reporting and Monitoring
   - Intelligent Logging and Analytics
   - Intelligent Operations Management
   - Intelligent Network Visibility
   - Private Cloud Automation
   - Site Protection and Disaster Recovery
   - Advanced Load Balancing
   - Cloud-Based Workload Protection
   - Cloud-Based Ransomware Recovery
   - Cross-Cloud Mobility
- 


- 
## Stopping Spot
- 