# Training-2024-05-20-Technical Overview of Compute Management.md

# Technical Overview of Compute Management

## Introduction
- Accelerate Innovation for DevOps
   - VM Service can be used to provision Windows VMs alongside Linux VMs. 
   - DevOps teams, developers, and other VM consumers can publish and manage VM images in a self-service manner. 
   - Easily export and share the Supervisor configuration with peers in a human-readable format and/or is available within a source control system.
- Boost Operational Efficniency
   - Upgrade vCenter instances with minimal disruption. A reduced maintenance window makes it easier to schedule updates sooner, allowing more rapid access to new features. If there is a problem, you can easily roll back the update and address security vulnerabilities quickly. 
   - Customers using Azure Active Directory (AD) as a third-party identity provider will be able to log in once for both vCenter and NSX manager, hence improving efficiency and security. 
   - Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) enablement with Azure AD will further improve security.
- Supercharge Workload Performance
   - More vGPU devices can be assigned to a single VM, improving the upper-performance limit for larger workloads.
   - Workload placement is now GPU aware, and DRS will try to place workloads with similar profile requirements on the same host. This improves resource utilization, which reduces cost as fewer GPU hardware resources must be acquired to achieve the desired level of performance.  
   - The performance advantages of data processing units (DPUs) are now available on servers manufactured by Lenovo and Fujitsu (with installed DPUs).
- Elevate Security
   - Bring confidentiality, integrity, and availability to workloads of all types and sizes.

## VMware vSphere Distributed Services Engine
- With vSphere Distributed Services Engine, infrastructure services are distributed across the different compute resources available on the ESXi host, with networking functions offloaded to the DPU. These DPUs are purpose-built accelerators that can take on the new compute burden and help you improve the performance and efficiency of the infrastructure.

## Ready to Refresh VCF
- Consumers:
   - Choose the interface you prefer - K8s CLI, GUI, IaC, APIs
   - Discover a rich set of IaaS / PaaS services
   - Enjoy frictionless self-service
- Admins:
   - Ensure governance and compliance
   - Expose infrastructure and services in a frictionless manner
   - Reduce operational costs and increase IT's agility and efficiency

## Supervisor Workload Control Plane
 - vSphere Admins Now Manage Applications with Namespaces
    - Each namespace has its own resource pool
    - resource isolation with quotas
    - Allo workloads in a namespace consumes quota
       - TKG clusters
       - VMs
       - Storage Volumes
    - vSphere Namespaces Provide More Isolation
    - Supported Volume Types Using vSphere CSI Driver
       - Read write once
          - dynamically provisioned block volume
          - any vSphere Block storage
          - Persistent volume claim (PVC) YAML Manifest
             - accessMode - ReadWriteOnce
          - Accessible from a single pod/worker node only
       - read write many
          - dynamically provisioned file based volume service
          - vSAN with file services only
          - Persistent volume claim (PVC) YAML Manifest
             - accessMode - ReadWriteMany
          - Access from multiple pods simultaneously
          - attachable to multiple K*s worker nodes

## VM Service
 - VM Service is a modern consumption interface through which any persona can self-service deploy and manage workloads.
   - VM Service is part of a unified control plane that extends Kubernetes to support management of all workloads.
   - VM Service is a self-service infrastructure tool that allows teams consuming infrastructure to self-service deploy and manage workloads in a declarative way.
   - VM Service provides a consistent Kubernetes experience using the K8s native interface, and allowing interop with other K8s core resources like storage and namespaces.
- VM Service is a foundation of the Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) platform that allows for infrastructure management and consumption for any workload.
- Within vSphere, VM Service is part of IaaS on vSphere with Tanzu alongside TKG.
- Why VM Service
   - Self-service deployments
   - GitOps friendly (Yaml based)
   - Self-service publish of custom VM images with support for Packer/Ansible
   - Cloud-init injection for post startup configurations
   - Desired state lifecycle management
   - Same mobility and availability as traditional VMs
   - Managed using the same interface as K8s
   - Cloud console allowing remote access
   - Windows and Linux based OS support
   - Access to all vSphere VM hardware and options 
   - Support for Kubernetes-style, load balanced services 
   - Support for Kubernetes-style storage with persistent volumes
- To describe the state of a VM to be deployed in a vSphere Namespace use parameters, such as a VM class, a VM image, and a storage class. The VM Service brings together these specifications to create stand-alone VMs or VMs that support Tanzu Kubernetes Grid clusters.
- Windows VM Support for VM Service
- Tanzu Kubernetes Grid
   - VM Service is part of IaaS on vSphere with Tanzu and is consumable through both kubectl API and Cloud Consumption Interface UI.
   - A new vSphere 8 feature called Workload Availability Zones is used to isolate workloads across vSphere clusters. Supervisor clusters and Tanzu Kubernetes clusters can be deployed across zones to increase the availability of the clusters by ensuring that the control plane nodes and worker nodes, in the case of Tanzu Kubernetes clusters, are not sharing the same vSphere clusters.
- Supervisor Services
   - What is a Supervisor Service?:  A Supervisor Service is defined as a set of K8s custom resources and operators required to administer and manage a DevOps consumable service delivered by a VI admin. Providing IaaS components and with tight integration with vSphere products.  
   - The operator-based deployment that allows a consumer to create instances of the Service. For example: MinIO is deployed as an operator and set of CRDs, allowing a consumer to create S3 buckets in their Supervisor namespace.
   - The shared instance, where a VI admin deploys a single instance of the Service, and the instance is utilized by consumers. For example: Harbor, a single instance is deployed, but consumers can be granted access to private projects or have projects created for their own use cases. 
   - Examples of services available today:
      - Velero - backup and migration of K8s clusters and persistent volumes
      - Cert Manager
      - Harbor - Harbor is an open source registry that secures artifacts with policies and role-based access control, ensures images are scanned and free from vulnerabilities, and signs images as trusted. Harbor, a CNCF Graduated project, delivers compliance, performance, and interoperability to help you consistently and securely manage artifacts across cloud native compute platforms like Kubernetes and Docker. 
      - Contour
      - ExternalDNS
## Multi-Zone Supervisor Deployment
- With vSphere 8, a Workload Availability Zone has a 1:1 relationship with a vSphere cluster. 

## vSphere Lifecycle Management
- vCenter Updates
   - Migration based update
   - easy rollback
   - vCenter reduced downtime upgrade is supported for a single, self-managed vCenter instance initially. It does not currently support vCenter instances enabled with vCenter HA or vCenter instances participating in Enhanced Linked Mode (ELM).

- vSphere Configuration Profiles
   - desired state config management
   - cluster wide configuration
   - monitor and remediate config drift
   - vSphere Configuration Profiles is a new capability in vSphere 8.0, that allows administrators to manage the host configuration at a cluster level. This capability allows administrators to:
      - Set desirec configuration at the cluster level in a JSON document
      - Check all hosts are compliant
      - if not compliant, remediate
- vSphere Lifecycle Manager
   - Declaritive
   - Full stack firmware updates
   - simplified OEM customization
   - Staging and Patching
      - This staging reduces the time needed for the hosts to spend in maintenance mode. Firmware payloads can also be staged with integration from a supported Hardware Support Manager. 
   - vSphere 8 introduced vSphere Lifecycle Manager support for standalone ESXi hosts managed by vCenter using vSphere APIs

## Artificial Intelligence
- vSphere AI/ML Supported Features
   - In the latest vSphere release we can now support up 16 vGPU devices on a single VM as well as up to 32 passthrough devices. This allows vSphere to support the largest and most complex of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) models and workloads that need all that hardware acceleration. 
   - vSphere also supports new mobility features for vGPU-enabled virtual machines like a configurable allowed stun-time and better Distributed Resource Scheduler (DRS) integration.
   - Now you can assign workloads with different vGPU profile types to the same physical GPU, helping to better consume the GPU resources. Memory sizes of all the profiles must match, though. In the example below, all of the profiles allocate 8 GB of GPU memory. There are also additional sizing guidelines found in the NVIDIA Grid documentation, for computing the number of supported instances on each GPU.

## Resource Management
- Consumption, Diagnostics, and Alerts
- Proactive vSphere Diagnostics and Known Issue Alerts:  Skyline Health Diagnostics is VMware’s self-service diagnostic and health platform. It helps you:
   - Diagnose any failures or known issues and resolve
- Run health checks
- Understand applicability of VMware Security Advisories and related resolutions
- Identify issues that might impact the update or upgrade of the product

## Availability and Resilience
- vSphere 8 enhancements
   - automatic vCenter snapshots
   - Certificate replacement or renewal without service interruption
   - recover configuration changes after restoring vCenter from backup
   - One such activity where it is crucial to take a backup before performing is patching and updating vCenter. You will now see a pre-check message indicating 1. if the native file-based backup feature is not being used and 2. if file-based backup is being used, the message will tell you how old the last back is. Thus, providing you with a reminder that you may want to perform a more recent backup.
   - In vSphere 8 Update 2 we are expanding the Distributed Key-Value Store to include vSphere Distributed Switch (VDS) configuration, including vSphere Distributed Switch instances used by VMware NSX.

## Security and Compliance
- vSphere Enhanced Security Features
   - vSphere Security Configuration Guide
- vSphere uses the following cryptography technologies to keep data in transit safe.
   - TLS 1.2, 1.3
   - Advanced Cyphers
   - Certificate replacement
   - 3K bit default keys
- Authentication
   -  federation, using open authentication and authorization standards like OAUTH2 and OIDC. vSphere 8 supports connections to Active Directory via LDAP/LDAPS, but also federation with Microsoft ADFS, Okta, Microsoft Entra ID,  and Ping Federate. This enables flexible authentication and authorization setups that can be as secure and centralized as an organization would like. The experience is similar to how web-based authentication systems work, where the user is redirected to the authentication provider and then back to vCenter. 

## Networking
- Network Offload Support
- NVMe over TCP
- NSX-V removed
- NFS Traffic Isolation

## Storage
- VASA v5 for vVols
- WSFC Cluysters per hosts increased to 16
- DNS lookup cache for NFS 4.1

## Developer and API
- Developer portal [link](https://developer.broadcom.com/home)
   - APIs to build on VMware products and manage and automate your infrastructure
   - Sample Exchange where you can find and share code samples for APIs, SDKs, and CLIs
   - PowerCLI where you can use Powershell to manage and automate VMware infrastructure

## Notes

## Stopping Spot
- 