# 3.Technical Overview of Network Management.md

## Networking Technical Overview

## Goals

- Articulate how VMware Cloud Foundation NSX Networking helps manage a software-defined network through these four features: Multi-site networking and security, switching and routing in software (SDN), through the use of Tenancy (VRF, Project, VPC) and Automation (API).
- Recall how VMware Hybrid Cloud Extension (HCX) provides a one-stop shop for workload migration from the discovery and planning phases of applications and networks, all the way through to execution.
- Describe how VMware Aria Operations for Networks provides agnostic, broad, end-to-end visibility with application context.

## Notes

## Features
- VCF Networking provides native management of sites and multi-site networking. Further, NSX provides consistent policy enforcement through an inherent security model. NSX security includes Distributed Firewall, Micro-Segmentation, Advanced Threat Protection with IDS/IPS, Behavioral Network Analysis, Malware Prevention, and NDR. This course will focus on VCF’s networking services. 

VCF Networking with NSX delivers the public cloud experience in the Private Cloud.

- VCF Networking enables the isolation of tenant traffic with virtual routing and forwarding instances, or VRFs. NSX Projects provide for multitenant operations, deployment, and consumption of NSX services for the enterprise admin (provider) and project users (tenants). The provider can create projects, assign users and groups, and allocate quotas to restrict tenant configurations—further tenancy capability with NSX VPCs. Virtual Private Clouds are a secure, isolated private cloud construct that offers a second level of tenancy below projects with a streamlined UI and an API that allow teams to deploy networking and security easily. The VPC allows self-service consumption and scaling of NSX networking and security services for tenants while allowing the admin to implement the necessary isolation.

- A single NSX API, native integration with VMware Aria Automation, fully supported Ansible modules, Terraform provider, PowerShell integration, and much more.

- Native operations capabilities such as central CLI, traceflow, overlay logical SPAN and IPFIX to troubleshoot and proactively monitor the virtual network infrastructure. Integration with tools such as VMware Aria Operations for Logs for highly scalable log management and VMware Aria Operations for Networks for advanced analytics and troubleshooting. NSX with HCX allows for simplified workload migration, hybrid-cloud extension, and business continuity with optimized data replication.

## Accellerating digital transformation
- When VCF is first deployed from Bring-up, each host is configured initially with five networks. Each network should be configured with its own VLAN ID (recommended).
- Four (4) of these networks are deployed as VMKernel ports which traverse the virtual distributed switch (VDS) using familiar vSphere networking.  The VDS is prepared for NSX and configured with Load Based Teaming to optimize network traffic flow.

- These four (4) networks comprise of (Host) Management, VM Management, vMotion and vSAN and are configured following VMware best practice

- SDDC Manager provides automated workflows to configure NSX Edge Clusters with 2-tier routing to provide north-south routing and network services.

- Distributed services include but are not limited to distributed routing, distributed load balancing, and distributed firewall services. Centralized services, those found only on the NSX Edges, include but are not limited to NAT, VPN and DHCP

## VCF and the Networking Stack

## Introduction To Aria Operations for Networks
- Application Dependency mapping 
- Application security and performance
- automated troubleshooting
- It supports a variety of network devices, including routers, switches, firewalls, and load balancers. It also provides visibility for Virtualized Network Devices
- It supports VMware VCF running on supported hyperscalers. This ensures that customers can easily connect their Private Cloud to VCF running in public cloud environments.
- It collects data through APIs, Telemetry, Flows, and other non-intrusive methods with little to no impact on performance.
- Artificial Intelligence / Machine Learning - Based Business Application Discovery
-  can help during the transition from brownfield VMware infrastructure to Greenfield VCF with NSX and HCX. 
- users can understand application and network topology and flow analytics.
- Intent Checks, which help us understand if the business policy is being followed or not. For instance, if the policy is to restrict internet access to the financial database, we can monitor any changes made during the weekly configuration changes.
- Network Intents are a high-level, declarative way to express the intended state of a network. They allow network administrators to specify what they want the network to do, rather than how to do it.
- HCX Monitoring and Troubleshooting
- Cisco ACI Visibility with NSX
   - The tool also supports End Point Groups, which includes EPG Gateway, L3Out Contracts, and L3Out EPG. This makes it easier to identify and locate issues between vendors in complex scenarios. Additionally, the path search feature between NSX and Cisco ACI topologies provides a more thorough approach to troubleshooting.
- VMware Aria Operations for Networks - Integrations







## Stopping Spot
- 