# 4.Technical Overview of Storage Management.md

## Technical Overview of Storage Management

## Overview

## Objectives
- Understand how VMware Cloud Foundation (VCF) provides flexible storage support for workload domains to satisfy a broad range of customer application requirements. 
- Explain how Virtual Volumes (vVols) significantly change the way external storage is managed.
- Describe the new way to process and store data efficiently with the help of vSAN Express Storage Architecture (ESA).
- Summarize the features of vSAN’s new disaggregated storage offering, VMware vSAN Max.
- Describe the vSAN and vVols interoperability and how they compliment each other.

## Notes

## VMware Cloud Foundation Storage
- Principle Storage
   - During the initial automated deployment of VMware Cloud Foundation, local vSAN storage is configured for use in the management domain; and is what VMware recommends using in any other domain.  
   - While local vSAN storage is always recommended, customers can also choose to configure their workload domains for:
      - vVols (using iSCSI, NFS or FC)
      - NFSv3 
      - VMFS on FC
   - The option to configure vSAN remote datastores using vSAN HCI Mesh is also available.
- Supplimental Storage
   - Supplemental Storage can be used to add storage capacity to any domain or cluster, including the management domain. Supplemental storage is supported by vSphere mainly for data at rest, such as virtual machine templates, backup data, ISO images, etc. It is not used for running workloads. 
   - Supplemental storage options include:
      - vSAN remote datastores (leveraging vSAN HCI Mesh)
      - NFS options NFSv3 and NFSv4.1 as well as VMFS on FC
      - VMFS on iSCSI
      - NVMe-oF
      - NVMeoF/TCP (New)
   - Targets:
      - Data protection (File/Image backups)
      - Data at rest (templates, backups, archives)
      - Migration to a full SDDC
   
- Customer Challenges
   - siloed management
   - rigid infrastructure
   - complex process      
- Virtual Volumes - Simpler, Smarter, Faster
   - Significantly changes the way external storage is managed. 
   - Simplifies the day-to-day operations, enables granular management of your virtual machines, and with the efficient input/output control and handling of snapshots, Virtual Volumes can increase performance.
   - Greatly increases the value of your storage as well as the utilization by utilizing SPBM (Storage Policy Based Management) to manage capabilities.
   - Virtual Volumes (vVols) = Well-orchestrated system of RDMs
   - No File System
   - Pass Through UNMAP
   - no pre-provisioning
   - Storage policy-based management
   - integrated replication management
   - How is a traditional datastore different from a vVols datastore?
       - Storage Containers: Logically a vVol datastore and VMFS or NFS datastore are the same. The difference is in how a vVol container is provisioned and utilized. 
       - Corresponds 1:1 with datastores in vSphere: Each vVol datastore corresponds 1:1 with a container on an array. When a vVol datastore or container is created on the array, there’s no physical allocation of space. 
       - Logical Storage constructs for grouping of virtual volumes
       - Minimum one storage container per array: Maximum capacity is based on physical storage capacity of the array, though there is still a virtual disk size limit of 62TB.
   - vVols are simpler: Granular, policy based, VI admin-controlled storage environment.
   - Another key aspect of vVols over traditional storage is the array. vSphere has complete insight into the data and I/O requirements. Subsequently, the array can then manage the I/O and data accordingly.
   - The secret sauce or unique quality of vVols is Storage Policy Based Management (SPBM).
- NVME FC and NVME-TCP is supported in VCF
   - Support multiple transports
   - Simple command set 
   - Up to 64K queues per NVM controller
   - Up to 64K commands per queue
   - Removes SCSI from the storage stack
   - Non-Volatile Memory Fibre Channel (NVMe-FC) requires Host Bus Adapters (HBAs) supporting NVMeoF, most do support it or may require a firmware upgrade.
   - NVMe-TCP added in vSphere 7 Update 3 and added to VCF in 5.0
   - Any NVMeoF datastore will be VMFS 6
   - As of VCF 5.0 NVMeoF is supplemental storage only
- NVME over Remote direct memory access is not supported
- Infrastructure to Support End-to-End Non-Volatile Memory Express
   - important aspect of supporting end-to-end NVMe is to allow third-party multi-pathing plugins to control and manage NVMe arrays.
   - Any combination of VM using either a SCSI or vNVMe controller and the target being either SCSI or NVMe, the storage stack path can be translated.  

## vSAN - Introduction
- vSAN ESA 
   - First, we see traditional HCI, where we are aggregating compute and storage resources into a single cluster. These resources serve as an exclusive resource of the cluster. 
   - Next, we see vSAN’s first disaggregated offering, where a vSAN cluster could provide storage capacity resources to another vSAN cluster.  
   - New to vSAN 8 U2 is vSAN Max. This is a vSAN cluster that will not host any VM instances on the cluster, but be used exclusively for the purpose of providing shared storage to other vSphere and vSAN clusters.  

- VSAN HCI
   - Standard Cluster
   - Two node cluster
   - Stretched Cluster

- VSAN Compute Cluster - Cluster connecting to a VSAN MAX Cluster
- VSAN MAX
   - Single site cluster
   - stretched cluster

- Client Clusters
   - Client clusters that are traditional vSphere clusters, are not defined as "Original Storage Architecture" (OSA) or "Express Storage Architecture" (ESA) clusters. They are simply vSphere clusters that are acting as the client connection in this arrangement. Therefore, the client clusters do not need to comply with typical vSAN requirements.
   - While vSAN Max requires 25/100GbE networking (100GbE preferred) for the network that is used to communicate between hosts in the vSAN Max cluster, the client clusters connecting to the vSAN Max cluster can use 10Gbe networking.

- VSAN Express Storage Architecture
   - vSAN ESA has an all new fast and efficient data path, and a highly efficient and resilient data structure.
   - Store data at Raid-6 with Raid 1 performance
   - snapshots with minimal performance impact
   - VSAN Max Storage clusters
   - Lower CPU usage per IO
   - up to 70% more usable capacity
   - up to 500 vms per host
   - efficient compression
   - better TCO
   - When using the ESA, customers will have a new native snapshot engine that is highly scalable and efficient.
   - vSAN environments will be able to create point-in-time states of data with a minimal degradation in performance of a VM, no matter how many snapshots are taken.  
   - The new native snapshot capability is integrated directly in vSphere, and fully supports our broad backup partner community with continued support of VADP backup integration.  
   - With the vSAN 8 ESA, the native snapshot functionality is a foundational part of vSAN that will allow customers to be more agile with their data and introduce new use cases.
   - In VMware’s published TCO paper on vSAN ESA, a configuration example is provided that showed 39% fewer hosts in a cluster (from 18 hosts to 11 hosts) when using the ESA versus the OSA.
   - Auto-policy management improvements in vSAN ESA
   - Easily tailor unique data services on a per cluster basis
      - While vSAN can run hundreds of VMs per host in a vSAN cluster, additional data services are available to extend the functionality of vSAN.  
      - SMB and NFS shares to work with both 
      - Native S3 compatible object storage - This comes through the use of 3rd party certified solutions as a part of the VMware vSAN Data Persistence Platform, or DPP.
      - encryption at rest and in flight offerings

- vSAN Max - Introduction
   - vSAN Max provides Petabyte-scale disaggregated storage for vSphere.
   - It gives our customers the unique ability to provision a vSAN cluster to be used as shared storage for vSphere clusters. 
   - It is built using the vSAN Express Storage Architecture (ESA), and will most certainly introduce all new benefits for our customers who wish to have a three-tier architecture, but like the convenience and simplicity of vSAN.  
   - While vSAN in a traditional HCI model has been wildly successful, vSAN Max helps address specific use cases for our customers, such as their desire to have centralized shared storage for their entire environment. 
   -  With vSAN 8 U2 and vSAN Max, one can still provide datastore sharing from a vSAN HCI cluster to vSAN HCI cluster, and to vSphere clusters, but for a centralized shared storage solution, vSAN Max will be the best way to achieve supreme levels of scalability and flexibility.

- Storage Clusters
   - At a high level, vSAN Max is a cluster of vSAN hosts designed purely for the purpose of providing shared storage to other clusters.
   - vSAN Max is built off of vSAN ESA, which provides all new levels of performance and efficiency and the capabilities native to vSAN ESA.

- vSAN and vVols are not competitive, they are complementary. 
- The key is to emphasize policy based management which is something only VMware has.
- One of the key aspects of VMware Cloud Foundation is the automation, and with SPBM, this includes storage.
- SPBM can play a key role especially in Kubernetes. Persistent storage associated with a storage class can be associated with an SPBM policy allowing the automated management of persistent storage containers.

## Stopping Spot
- complete