# 6.Technical overview of Cloud Management.md

## Technical overview of Cloud Management

## Objectives
- Articulate why customers are aiming to transform their on-premises data centers into a modern self-service private cloud with VCF and recall how VMware Aria powers VCF and supports this goal. 
- Recall the four VCF Aria use cases: Automated Delivery, Cost and Capacity, Performance and Troubleshooting, and Governance and Compliance.
- Recall some of the customer wins for VCF Aria.

## Notes
- Delivering a True Cloud Experience with a Cloud Operating Model
   - automated delivery
      - Transforming an on-prem data center into a modern, self-service private cloud.
         - Self-Service Catalog: Consumers can provision needed resources themselves with a curated catalog and control what types of resources and workloads are available to different users.
         - Seamless Policy Enforcement: Trigger approval policies for certain workloads and control how many resources and how large of deployments users can provision. Manage resource leases for temporary workloads.
         - Day 2 Management:  Allows users to perform management operations on their workloads and limit specific actions that users can take themselves.
         - Cloud Admins: Need to deliver a unified self-service provisioning and catalog layer with seamless workload portability across a hybrid cloud infrastructure.   
      - Enabling GitOps-based iterative development with infrastructure as code and pipelining through    DevOps for Infrastructure.
         - Repeatability through infrastructure as code
            - source control
            - declaritive templates with YAML
         - gitops for collaboration
         - Infrastructure CICD
      - Delivering Kubernetes as a service through Kubernetes Automation.
         - Service Catalog Approach: Using this method, VMware Aria Automation is integrated with Tanzu Mission Control (TMC) using the out-of-the-box integration tile in VMware Aria Automation.
         - Kubernetes CLI/UI/API Approach: Enable developers to rapidly create and consume cloud-native and traditional IT infrastructure resources.
   - performance and troubleshooting
      - Full Stack Visibility
      - Application and Container Monitoring
      - AI-Driven Troubleshooting and Remediation
   - cost and capacity
      - Assess Capacity and Address Shortfalls
      - Reclaim Capacity and Automate Cost Savings
      - Infrastructure and Workload Planning
      - TCO with Showback and Chargeback
         - Price is how much you want to charge the owner of a VM to run their VM.
         - Price can be based on cost or allocation with additional prices added, as needed.  
         - Chargeback is a report based on prices which you present to the user as a bill.
   - governance and compliance
      - Regulatory and Hardening Guideline Compliance
      - Sustainability
         - Clean Demand
         - Green Supply
         - Lean Operations
      - Infrastructure Reporting and Best Practices








## Stopping Spot
- 